Kafka_Security.md, before:

# Enabling SSL in Kafka

- Follow the below steps for enabling SSL in your local environment

## Make a directory to store keies

- $ mkdir ssl
- $ cd ssl

## Generating the KeyStore

- The below command is to generate the **keyStore**.
- KeyStore in general has information about the server and the organization

```
keytool -keystore server.keystore.jks -alias localhost -validity 365 -genkey -keyalg RSA
```

**Example**
- After entering all the details the final value will look like below.

```
CN=localhost, OU=localhost, O=localhost, L=Chennai, ST=TN, C=IN
```

## Generating CA

- The below command will generate the ca cert(SSL cert) and private key. This is normally needed if we are self signing the request.

```
openssl req -new -x509 -keyout ca-key -out ca-cert -days 365 -subj "/CN=local-security-CA"
```

## Certificate Signing Request(CSR)

- The below command will create a **cert-file** as a result of executing the command.

```
keytool -keystore server.keystore.jks -alias localhost -certreq -file cert-file
```

## Signing the certificate

- The below command takes care of signing the CSR and then it spits out a file **cert-signed**

```
openssl x509 -req -CA ca-cert -CAkey ca-key -in cert-file -out cert-signed -days 365 -CAcreateserial -passin pass:password
```

- To view the content inside the file **cert-signed**, run the below command.

```
keytool -printcert -v -file cert-signed
```


## Adding the Signed Cert in to the KeyStore file

```
keytool -keystore server.keystore.jks -alias CARoot -import -file ca-cert
keytool -keystore server.keystore.jks -alias localhost -import -file cert-signed
```

## Generate the TrustStore

- The below command takes care of generating the truststore for us and adds the **CA-Cert** in to it.
- This is to make sure the client is going to trust all the certs issued by CA.

```
keytool -keystore client.truststore.jks -alias CARoot -import -file ca-cert
```

## Broker SSL Settings

```
ssl.keystore.location=<location>/server.keystore.jks
ssl.keystore.password=password
ssl.key.password=password
ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm=
```
# Accessing SSL Enabled Topics using Console Producers/Consumers

- Create a topic

```
./kafka-topics.sh --create --topic test-topic -zookeeper localhost:2181 --replication-factor 1 --partitions 3
```

- Create a file named **client-ssl.properties** and have the below properties configured in there.

```
security.protocol=SSL
ssl.truststore.location=<location>/client.truststore.jks
ssl.truststore.password=password
ssl.truststore.type=JKS
```

## Producing Messages to Secured Topic

- Command to Produce Messages to the secured topic

```
./kafka-console-producer.sh --broker-list localhost:9095,localhost:9096,localhost:9097 --topic test-topic --producer.config client-ssl.properties
```

## Consuming Messages from a Secured Topic

- Command to Produce Messages to the secured topic

```
./kafka-console-consumer.sh --bootstrap-server localhost:9095,localhost:9096,localhost:9097 --topic test-topic --consumer.config client-ssl.properties
```


## Producing Messages to Non-Secured Topic

```
./kafka-console-producer.sh --broker-list localhost:9092,localhost:9093,localhost:9094 --topic test-topic
```


## Consuming Messages from a Non-Secured Topic

```
./kafka-console-consumer.sh --bootstrap-server localhost:9092,localhost:9093,localhost:9094 --topic test-topic
```

## 2 Way Authentication

- This config is to enable the client authentication at the cluster end.

```
keytool -keystore server.truststore.jks -alias CARoot -import -file ca-cert
```

- Add the **ssl.client.auth** property in the **server.properties**.

```
ssl.truststore.location=<location>/server.truststore.jks
ssl.truststore.password=password
ssl.client.auth=required
```
- Kafka Client should have the following the config in the **client-ssl.properties** file

```
ssl.keystore.type=JKS
ssl.keystore.location=<location>/client.keystore.jks
ssl.keystore.password=password
ssl.key.password=password
```

Commit message:

- generating keystore file and signed it. - enable ssl for kafka servers in server.properties files

Kafka_Security.md, after:

# Enabling SSL in Kafka

- Follow the below steps for enabling SSL in your local environment

## Make a directory to store keies

- $ mkdir ssl
- $ cd ssl

## Generating the KeyStore

- The below command is to generate the **keyStore**.
- KeyStore in general has information about the server and the organization

```
keytool -keystore server.keystore.jks -alias localhost -validity 365 -genkey -keyalg RSA
```

**Example**
- After entering all the details the final value will look like below.

```
CN=localhost, OU=localhost, O=localhost, L=Chennai, ST=TN, C=IN
```

**To show the content of keystor file**

```
keytool -list -v -keystore server.keystore.jks
```
## Generating CA

- The below command will generate the ca cert(SSL cert) and private key. This is normally needed if we are self signing the request.

```
openssl req -new -x509 -keyout ca-key -out ca-cert -days 365 -subj "/CN=local-security-CA"
```

## Certificate Signing Request(CSR)

- The below command will create a **cert-file** as a result of executing the command.

```
keytool -keystore server.keystore.jks -alias localhost -certreq -file cert-file
```

## Signing the certificate

- The below command takes care of signing the CSR and then it spits out a file **cert-signed**

```
openssl x509 -req -CA ca-cert -CAkey ca-key -in cert-file -out cert-signed -days 365 -CAcreateserial -passin pass:password
```

- To view the content inside the file **cert-signed**, run the below command.

```
keytool -printcert -v -file cert-signed
```


## Adding the Signed Cert in to the KeyStore file

```
keytool -keystore server.keystore.jks -alias CARoot -import -file ca-cert
keytool -keystore server.keystore.jks -alias localhost -import -file cert-signed
```

## Generate the TrustStore

- The below command takes care of generating the truststore for us and adds the **CA-Cert** in to it.
- This is to make sure the client is going to trust all the certs issued by CA.

```
keytool -keystore client.truststore.jks -alias CARoot -import -file ca-cert
```

## Broker SSL Settings
Add the following lines to server.properies files
```
listeners = PLAINTEXT://localhost:<plaintext_port>, SSL://localhost:<ssl_port>

ssl.keystore.location=<location>/server.keystore.jks
ssl.keystore.password=password
ssl.key.password=password
ssl.endpoint.identification.algorithm=
```
# Accessing SSL Enabled Topics using Console Producers/Consumers

- Create a topic

```
./kafka-topics.sh --create --topic test-topic -zookeeper localhost:2181 --replication-factor 1 --partitions 3
```

- Create a file named **client-ssl.properties** in the kafka bin directory and have the below properties configured in there.

```
security.protocol=SSL
ssl.truststore.location=<location>/client.truststore.jks
ssl.truststore.password=password
ssl.truststore.type=JKS
```

## Producing Messages to Secured Topic

- Command to Produce Messages to the secured topic

```
./kafka-console-producer.sh --broker-list localhost:9095,localhost:9096,localhost:9097 --topic test-topic --producer.config client-ssl.properties
```

## Consuming Messages from a Secured Topic

- Command to Produce Messages to the secured topic

```
./kafka-console-consumer.sh --bootstrap-server localhost:9095,localhost:9096,localhost:9097 --topic test-topic --consumer.config client-ssl.properties
```


## Producing Messages to Non-Secured Topic

```
./kafka-console-producer.sh --broker-list localhost:9092,localhost:9093,localhost:9094 --topic test-topic
```


## Consuming Messages from a Non-Secured Topic

```
./kafka-console-consumer.sh --bootstrap-server localhost:9092,localhost:9093,localhost:9094 --topic test-topic
```

## 2 Way Authentication

- This config is to enable the client authentication at the cluster end.

```
keytool -keystore server.truststore.jks -alias CARoot -import -file ca-cert
```

- Add the **ssl.client.auth** property in the **server.properties**.

```
ssl.truststore.location=<location>/server.truststore.jks
ssl.truststore.password=password
ssl.client.auth=required
```
- Kafka Client should have the following the config in the **client-ssl.properties** file

```
ssl.keystore.type=JKS
ssl.keystore.location=<location>/client.keystore.jks
ssl.keystore.password=password
ssl.key.password=password
```
